This video is the exercise that goes along with the previous video on converting between radians and
degrees.
So it would behoove you to go through that video before working through this exercise.
All right.
So the point of this exercise is to create a function in Python.
I called my function angle convert plot and what this function will do is ask for two inputs from the
user.
The angle to convert and the unit that was input it here and then what it will do is generate a plot
that looks like this this plot should show two vectors.
One is the vector with the angle that it was input in here.
So in this case I input it pi over four and it showed me an angle at pi over four which is also 45 degrees.
And another factor here that goes along the x axis or this is like the cosine axis.
And this is an important vector because this shows the reference.
So this angle is 45 degrees relative to this line here.
All right.
And then obviously you're going to have to create this title which means that you will have to convert
between radians and degrees.
Now of course I could have also input in 45 degrees in here and then I would have written the word degree
here so you have to make your function flexible enough to be able to convert or I should say accept
input in degrees or in radians.
Now the other thing that you need to make sure that your function does is a little bit of error handling.
And that's because maybe the user the person using this function is not paying attention or maybe they're
trying to play some tricks on you.
So you have to test to make sure that the input is either Radian or degrees and if it isn't.
If the input is neither of these two options then you have to give an error message.
So for example here I wrote angled to to convert 45.
Which unit you input.
I just wrote a SDF here.
Now SDF is not a valid measurement for an angle at least as far as I am aware.
So I gave an error here it says value our unknown unit.
Now I haven't actually told you yet in this course how to go about doing error handling inside functions.
So if you are feeling a bit adventurous a bit ambitious and you would like to figure this out on your
own then.
Now is the chance to pause the video switch to Python before I show the hint and if you're getting stuck
or you want a little bit of a hint then there you go.
That is your hint for getting this error handling to work in this function.
All right.
So now is your chance to positive video.
Write some code in Python and when you're ready you can come back to the video and watch me solve the
rest of this problem here.
So let's get started by creating our function.
So Def angle convert plots.
Now we don't need any inputs into this function because that's what we are going to specify.
So I'm going to create the first section of this code which will be to get the inputs from the user.
Okay so let's see the angle we are going to input as the message would be what angle to convert and
then call this variable unit and let's say input.
Which unit Did you input and then we will make a suggestion to provide the answer in radians or degree
okay.
So before going too much further you know that I'm a huge fan of testing code piece wise.
So the first thing that I'm going to do is to print out the angle and the unit and now I just want to
test that this code works so far as is okay.
So let's write angle convert plot and which angle to convert.
So let's convert about 13 degrees and which unit did you specify.
I wrote.
Degrees.
Okay.
So so far not super interesting.
This just confirms that I haven't made any errors here.
Now this is gonna come back as a string you'll remember when I introduced you to this function input
that the output of input.
So what it returns is always going to be a string but we actually want a number we want the angle to
be a numeric representation.
So let's see what happens if I do this in float.
So now we get let's say 46 degrees and I input a degree.
Okay so now we get a number that's pretty good.
But you saw in the slides that we should also be able to input radians using pi.
So let's see what happens if I try to convert from PIs NDP let's just convert pi and this 0 0 warning
could not convert string to float.
Mm hmm.
Okay so here we already have a problem with this command here and the problem is that this is actually
a string this is five characters.
It's not a floating point number.
So there are a few different ways to solve this problem the way that I came up with to solve this is
by using the function eval.
And what if all we'll do is evaluate the code as if you are writing it down.
So for example if you would write let me insert a new cell down here so insert cell below.
So if we would write eval whoops he fell and let's say I want to evaluate one plus two.
Now notice I wrote one plus two as a string.
But when I run this command eval when I run this code the answer that I get is three.
So evil is going to take this string and interpret it as if it was a python code.
Okay so let me get rid of that.
So now I'm going to evaluate whatever the input is so let's see if that works.
So end Peter pi and then radians okay and then we get pi as a number.
That's pretty cool.
And now we need to go back and make sure that this is still going to work for regular numbers.
So if I try to convert a number and I get back a number.
Huh.
All right.
That was pretty good.
So the next thing I want to do is run the conversion so the conversion basically means that we should
compute radians from angles if the input but our sorry radians from degrees if the input was degrees
or degrees from radians.
If the input was in radians.
Now the interesting thing to notice here is that these two words radiant and degree are actually purely
discriminated just by the first letter.
That means it doesn't actually matter what all these other letters are.
All we need to do is test whether the first letter is an R or a D.
So I'm going to write if unit index 0.
So just the first element in unit.
If that equals R then we are working with radians.
So now I'm going to create two new variables one is gonna be called RAD for radians not rad for radical.
And now we don't need to do any conversion because this is already the angle so the Radian already is
the angle but the degree has to be none pi red to degree.
So if the input is in radians then we convert from radians two degrees
likewise.
So l if so if the first character of unit is D then is basically exactly the opposite of this so we
can say that the degree is the angle that was inputted and the gradient is going to be num piled up
degree to radians of the input angle OK.
Now I haven't yet dealt with the error handling but again I've written some code and I want to test
that it makes sense.
I want to test that it works.
So now what I'm going to output is degree and read.
OK.
So run this self code again and then run this self code again and let's convert one hundred and eighty
degrees.
And that seems right.
So 180 degrees is pi radians.
And notice here I actually wrote degrees not degree which was the suggested input option.
OK let's try this again.
Let's go for pi divided by four.
And I'm just going to say radio and I'm like super excited about this.
Oh.
Mm hmm.
Now I get an error.
What is the problem here.
The problem here is that this is a capital R but here I'm only looking for a lower case are now there
are two ways that you can deal with this issue.
One is you can write if unit zero equals R or unit zero equals capital R.
And if you came up with this solution it's totally fine.
This is a great solution.
However there is an even slightly better solution which is to use a method on strings called lower and
lower is going to basically convert this string so the first letter into a lowercase letter.
So if this is capital R then this will be lower case r and if this is already lower case r then well
this doesn't do anything.
OK.
So I'm also going to write that here.
So dot lower now.
Let's run this code again so which angled to convert 43 degrees and I will say which input this is degree.
OK.
And then it still works.
Very nice.
Now we need the air.
So what happens if I write neither R nor D.
Now what we need to do here is basically raise an exception.
That's what the raises for us so we raise an error or an exception.
Now there are multiple kinds of errors and you can create your own error messages.
But I'm going to use the built in value area and we'll call this on known unit.
All right.
So so far this is looking pretty good.
What we have done is get the input of the angle and the unit.
We have done the conversion and now it's time for the plotting.
OK.
So let me get rid of this.
So let's make the graph.
I'll put it in.
Make the graph.
OK.
So I'm going to start by plotting the line that goes along the horizontal axis.
So the X range is going to be 0 to 1 and then the Y range is 0 to zero because it's flat across y and
I'll specify that the line with should be how about 2 and then I'm going to make the angle or align
with the angle that was specified here.
So that's going to be so the x component is going to be the cosine part of this angle and that needs
to be specified in radians if we're using cosine.
So num pied cosine of red and then the y component is zero.
That num pi that's sign of red and then also this can be a red line.
And let's also make this line even a little bit thicker.
How about three.
All right.
So there's still more to do with the plotting of course.
We need the title which is very important but I want to run this already just to make sure that it's
working so far.
Okay.
So which angle to convert.
How about 80 degrees.
That's almost a right angle.
And we specified degrees and then we see here's the reference line.
And here is our main vector here which is almost a right angle.
All right.
So we are getting there.
There's a couple of things that we still need to do.
One of them is to make this plot look a little bit nicer.
In particular it should be centered at zero not with zero all the way at the lower left corner here.
So I'm going to force the plot axis to go on the X range minus one to plus one.
And on the Y range minus one to plus one missing a comma there.
And I will also specify that the axis should be square and then I think I'll also turn on a grid s grid.
Okay.
Let's see how this is looking.
How about seventy eight and that was degrees right.
Remember the order counts here the order is important here.
So we have to say make the axis square first and then set the axis the axis limits.
Okay let's try this again 78 and degree.
All right.
This is looking better.
We still need a title so let's see.
This should be plot that title and then I'm going to write the angle is is % G in actually.
Let's see.
I want this to have a little degree mark so to get the degree mark you have to make a superscript and
then an 0.
So it looks like this in later coding.
However this is not straight later coding right here we have to specify the python that we want a little
bit of latex code and that is done by encasing the string in dollar signs.
So python will see these two dollar signs and interpret everything between them as latex code.
So angle is percent s degrees or percent s radians.
Okay.
So then we replace this first substitution with the degree and then with radians.
So we are coming close to the end.
I am pretty excited.
I wonder what ninety seven degrees looks like okay.
So there you go the angle is ninety seven degrees or one point six nine radians there is one more thing
that I would like to adjust in this code and that is if we input some really large number like this
Let's say this is degrees then we get an angle that is also really large and a radius that is really
really large.
Now technically this is true but as you learned in the previous video it's kind of hard to interpret.
It's useful to have the angles in degrees to go between zero and 360 and in radians to go between zero
and 2 pi.
So therefore I'm going to add a little bit more code here to convert to below three hundred and sixty
degrees so I'm just gonna say that the degree equals the degree mod 3 60s and the modulus after dividing
by 360 and the radius is going to be the radius mod and Pi dot PI.
This should be two pi it's pretty important.
All right.
And let me put these in parentheses here.
Okay so let's try this one more time inputting a fairly large number.
Let's say that's radians.
And now whatever number this is you know three and a half million radians that actually is the same
thing as about four radians or two hundred and thirty degrees all right.
Very nice.
So in this and the previous videos you learned about what I consider to be the most annoying part of
trigonometry.
Maybe you are annoyed by other parts of trigonometry but anyway you learned about converting between
metrics and you learn quite a bit about writing functions in Python.
That was a pretty informative video.
I would say in the next video we are going to continue our adventures through trigonometry in particular
focusing on graphing sine and cosine and tangent.
So I will see you soon.